Welcome back I encourage you to play with visual I'll go and create your own graph as I talk throughout
these videos about depth first search and breadth first search when it comes to graph traversal.
The way you can create a graph is to just simply say draw a graph and you'll be able to create something
like this yourself and then you can explore both depth first and breath for searches.
Now I'm going to have this animation running while I'm talking but we'll start off with zero and do
a breath search the unique thing about breath.
First search is that it lends itself really nicely to determining the shortest path between any node
especially when it comes to saying hey what's the closest node to zero.
That's a really easy question to ask.
When it comes to breath first search and we've already talked about how that is used in recommendation
engines.
Peer to peer networks even Google Maps right.
Facebook friend requests and Instagram recommendations breadth first search or DFS allows us to convert
a graph essentially into a tree because we know who the children of the parent node is and then the
grandchildren and then so on and so forth.
So if you remember this diagram over here we now understand that breath first search Yes.
It uses more memory to keep track of the parent knows and the children notes of that level but it also
helps us determine the shortest path and it's better if we know that a node we're looking for is close
to us because it's going to look at the closer nodes first so that when you get asked this in an interview
you know this algorithm is going to work well for these types of questions.
Because breath for a search is crafted to help us determine the shortest path between two notes in a
graph.